## [1.2.2] - 2024-03-27 (Bifrost 2.9)

### Build

 - BIFROST-9332 - Update to Bifrost 2.9 SDK
 - BIFROST-8981 - Update to USD 0.23.11
 - BIFROST-9147 - Make C++17 default

### Feature

 - BIFROST-9354 - USD File Format Option

    Add parameter to set a the USD layer format to ASCII or binary. Useful to save in human readable format and still keep the .usd extension.

 -  BIFROST-9334 - Add _get_edit_layer_ operator

    This node returns the stage's EditTarget layer.


### Bugfix

 - BIFROST 9428 - Fix scalar attribute creation regression when _using add_to_stage_ compound
 - BIFROST-9334 - Fix save_usd_stage compound errors when current edit target is not the root layer
    - Update the _save_usd_stage_ compound. It is now setting the target layer to the root layer before saving and then restore the current target (using the new get_edit_layer operator).

## [1.2.1] - 2023-11-15 (Bifrost 2.8)

### Build

 - BIFROST-9103 - Replace pxr by PXR_NS
 - BIFROST-9093 - Uses cpp2json executable instead of the deprecated amino_cpp2json_foreach one.
 - BIFROST-8182 - Remove -Wno-unused-macros on Windows targets
 - BIFROST-8182 - Clang-tidy support: Add the cmake target "bifrost_usd_clang_tidy" to the build.

### Feature

 - BIFROST-8077 - Add support for half and matrix attribute types

 - BIFROST-8574 - Add anchor_path parameter on add_reference_prim and add_payload_prim

   By specifying an "anchor_path", the identifier of the referenced layer will not include such anchor path in the reference list.

 - BIFROST-8424 - Add slider and color picker on ops

 - BIFROST-9008 - Add set_layer_permission node

   To be used for the very specific scenario when you need to reference a layer
   that needs to be modified by an other runtime than Bifrost.

   For example, if a stage generated by Bifrost references a "file based" layer
   storing some USD materials who should be authored in the LookdevX Editor,
   it would not work by default. This is because in order to keep the referenced layer
   "file based", the "read only" mode would need to be enabled in the open_layer node.
   If not in read only mode, the opened layer ("file based" layer) would be automatically
   copied into an anonymous layer by Bifrost USD (to avoid side effects) and so would not
   be editable  in LookdevX in a persistent way (as the layer identifier would change at
   every execution of the graph).

   The node graph to open a layer in Bifrost and let it be editable outside should look as following:
   open_layer (with read_only "on") -> set_layer_permission (with read_only "off") -> add_reference_prim

   The open_layer node will call the BifrostUsd::Layer constructor that is "opening or finding" the USD layer
   using the file path as an identifier (and will not create an anonymous layer, because of the read only mode).
   The set_layer_permission will allow the layer to be editable and will not output an anonymous layer.

 - BIFROST-8788 - Use for_each in define_usd_mesh

 - BIFROST-7769 - use getEnv*() functions from public Executor SDK

 - BIFROST-8199 - Use ConfigEnv instead of Object to get config from environment

 - BIFROST-3401 - Use new API for FileUtils::getRelativePath.

### Bugfix

 - BIFROST-9067 - Fix connection order when creating an add_to_stage node 'on the fly'

 - BIFROST-8826 - fix random test failures on Windows

   - Layer::exportToFile() now uses SdfLayer::New() instead of CreateNew().
   This prevents a temporary and default file to be created on the disk
   before the final exported file is actually written. On Windows, when
   Pixar USD is writing an initial file and almost immediately attempts
   to replace its content by renaming another file to such initial file,
   an "access denied" error can occasionally occur; eliminating the
   temporary file on the first place by not calling CreateNew() avoids
   this error.
   - Each unit test file now outputs its exported files into its own unique
   folder, avoiding completely the possibility that two concurrent tests
   from different test files would attempt to export to the same file.
   These unique output folders are deleted as a first phase for each test
   file, allowing tests to assume and check that an output file is not
   already on disk before it is being exported.
   - Some tests were previously just lucky to succeed, as they were
   exporting a root layer and sublayer to disk, but the sublayer was
   actually exported into the default output folder, not into the expected
   folder, and since the sublayer file was already saved to disk by
   another test case, the test assumed that everything went fine. Such
   test cases are now fixed or were removed (if not fixable).
   - Tests do not export initial files first, then replacing these by final
   file content, and finally checking the final file for some expected
   content. This was also occasionally causing "access denied" errors, as
   described above.
   - add README.md in test folder


## [1.2.0] - 2023-05-12 (Bifrost 2.7)

### Build

 - BIFROST-8086 - fix unit test errors

### Feature

 - BIFROST 8452 - Add color support to the _read_usd_curve_ and improve _define_usd_curves_ UI
    - Add option in _read_usd_curves_ to import _displayColor_ attribute as _point_color_ geo property.
    - Add Combo Box in _define_usd_curves_ to set basis and type parameters.

 - BIFROST-8452 - Add option in _read_usd_meshes_ to import _displayColor_ attribute as _point_color_ geo property

 - BIFROST-6771 - Add soft min-max sliders and color pickers widgets in following compounds
    - _define_usd_display_color_
    - _define_usd_point_instancer_
    - _define_usd_preview_surface_
    - _define_usd_transform_
    - _duplicate_usd_prim_definition_

 - BIFROST-8319 - Add _get_authored_attribute_names_ node, to get all authored attributes names 

 - BIFROST-8100 - Add _get_all_attribute_names_ node, to get all prim attributes names

### Bugfix

 - BIFROST-8426 - Inconsistent UI in define_usd_prim

 - BIFROST-8273 - fix sublayers not saved if relative_path is on
	- Use the layer's save file path (m_filePath) instead of the sdfLayerIdentifier in the recursive call to Layer::exportToFile().
	- Add new more complete unit test for export_layer_to_file() that covers multiple cases for relative and absolute paths to sublayers.
	- removed call to changeDir() that has side effect and is not required anymore for unit tests.


## [1.1.0] - 2023-03-29 (Bifrost 2.7)

### Build

- BIFROST-8068 - do not run test_graphs.py when system processor is not in target arch.

- BIFROST-8073 - update calls to xcrun to support latest xcode/macos

- BIFROST-8065 - add support to build for desired binary architecture on OSX

- BIFROST-7845 - Add test loading all compounds

### Feature

- BIFROST-7955 - Add applied schema nodes
	- add_applied_schema: This node adds the applied API schema name to the apiSchema metadata of the prim
	- remove_applied_schema: This node removes the applied API schema name from the apiSchema metadata of the prim


### Bugfix

## [1.0.0] - 2022-12-12 (Bifrost 2.6)

 - Initial release
